OSI Layer 4

Objectives

    Identify Network Devices at each layer of the OSI model (Layer 1-4)

    Send and receive Unicast/Broadcast/Multicast/Anycast traffic

    Use struct to unpack dynamically sized input (ie use a sequence of unpacks with values depending on previous unpacks)
	
TCP

TCP is connection-oriented, provides error checking and reliability of communication

TCP includes HTTP, SMTP, SSH

connections begin with a handshake, then data is transmitted, then connection is closed followed by teardown

TCP provides reliable transfer via:

    Correctly ordering packets received in arbitrary order.

    Validating received packets were not corrupt.

    Re-requesting packets that were corrupt or not received at all.

    Flow and congestion control.

    Requires positive acknowledgement before next data transmission.
	
Layer 4 Devices

switches
application (web) accelerators
WAN accelerators
load balancers

TCP Headers and Flags

Headers:
Source Port – sending port
Destination Port – Receiving port
Sequence Number – Initially random. Each new transmission adds the size of the data
Acknowledgment Number – The next byte expected to be received.
Data offset - Size of TCP header in 32bit words
Reserved – 0's
Flags – Bit mask of all TCP flags
Window size – Max number of bytes receiver can handle
Checksum – Checksum of header and data
Urgent Pointer – Only valid if URG flag set
Options – Allows for expanded uses
Flags:
NS - Nonce Sum, used to counter an old method for an attacker attempting to "hide" traffic.
CWR - Congestion Window Reduced, an acknowledgement of congestion notification (ECE).
ECE - Explicit Congestion Notification, notifies sender of network congestion, or that the remote side is ENC capable (if sent along with SYN).
URG - Urgent field, is valid in this transmission.
ACK - Acknowledgement field, is on almost all transmissions except for initial SYN.
PSH - Requests data be pushed to application.
RST - Resets the connection.
SYN - Requests a Seq No sync.
FIN - No more data to send.

three-way handshake: cxn initiated via SYN packet, server replies with SYN and ACK, client responds with ACK

window scaling is max data to be received before being ACKed
flow control is receiver saying how much they are willing to receive before ACK

UDP (DNS, DHCP, SNMP, RIP, etc.)